Golgi Outposts Shape Dendrite Morphology by Functioning as Sites of Acentrosomal Microtubule Nucleation in Neurons
Author: Ori-McKenney, Kassandra M.
Journal: Neuron (Cambridge, Mass.)
ISSN: 0896-6273
Date: 12/2012
  Volume: 76   Issue: 5   Starting page number: 921-930
DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2012.10.008


Microtubules are organized into dynamic arrays that serve as tracks for directed vesicular transport and are essential for the proper establishment and maintenance of neuronal architecture

Nucleating complexes, in particular, are necessary because spontaneous nucleation of new tubulin polymers is kinetically limiting both in vivo and in vitro

Gamma(?)-tubulin is a core component of microtubule organization centers and has a well-established role in nucleating spindle and cytoplasmic microtubules 

Indeed, injection of antibodies against ?-tubulin or severing proteins inhibited axon outgrowth in neurons cultured for one day in vitro (DIV1)

In Drosophila dsas-4 mutants that lack centrioles, organization of eye-disc neurons and axon outgrowth are normal in third-instar larvae

Dendritic arborization (da) neurons provide an excellent system for investigating these questions. They are a subtype of multipolar neurons in the PNS of Drosophila melanogaster which produce complex dendritic arrays and do not contain centrosomes

When the Golgi is fragmented upon treatment with nocodazole, the dispersed Golgi ministacks can still promote microtubule nucleation, indicating that these individual ministacks contain the necessary machinery for nucleation 

in Drosophila class IV da neurons, the Golgi outposts appear throughout the dendritic arbor, including within the terminal branches

The Golgi outposts may provide membrane for a growing dendrite branch, as the dynamics of smaller Golgi outposts are highly correlated with dendrite branching and extension

It is unknown whether Drosophila Golgi outposts contain nucleation machinery similar to mammalian Golgi stacks. Such machinery could conceivably support microtubule nucleation within the complex and dynamic dendritic arbor.

In order to understand how the microtubule cytoskeleton is organized in the branches of class IV dendritic arborization (da) neurons, we analyzed the dynamics of EB1-GFP comets throughout the entire dendritic arbor in vivo.

We observed that Golgi outposts correlated with EB1 comet formation at dendrite branchpoints, distal tips, and within the terminal branch. Other organelles, such as Rab11-positive endosomes and mitochondria, did not correlate with EB1 comet formation in vivo.

Whole, live, third-instar larvae were mounted in 90% glycerol under coverslips sealed with grease and imaged using a Leica SP5 laser scanning confocal microscope.



Title: Tent Life in Siberia

Author: George Kennan


North of Lesnoi the great central range of the Kamchatka mountains broke off abruptly into the Okhotsk Sea, in a long line of tremendous precipices, and interposed a great rugged wall between us and the steppes of the Wandering Koraks. This mountain range was very difficult to pass with horses, even in midsummer, and was of course infinitely worse now, when the mountain streams were swollen by the fall rains into foaming torrents, and the storms which herald the approach of winter might be at any moment expected.

Flags were made, a code of signals was agreed upon, the heavy baggage was transferred to the whale-boat and a large sealskin canoe, and early on the morning of October 4th I bade the Major and Dodd good-bye at the beach, and they pushed off. We started up our train of horses as the boats disappeared around a projecting bluff, and cantered away briskly across the valley toward a gap in the mountains, through which we entered the "wilderness."

I tried, by climbing a low mountain back of our tent, to get a sight of the sea; but we were at least fifteen versts from the coast, and the view was limited by an intervening range of rugged peaks, many of which reach the altitude of perpetual snow. It was rather lonely to camp that night without seeing Dodd's cheerful face by the fireside, and I missed more than I thought I should the lively sallies, comical stories and good-humoured pleasantry which had hitherto brightened the long hours of camp life. If Dodd could have read my thoughts that evening, as I sat in solitary majesty by the fireside, he would have been satisfied that his society was not unappreciated, nor his absence unfelt. Viushin took especial pains with the preparation of my supper, and did the best he could, poor fellow, to enliven the solitary meal with stories and funny reminiscences of Kamchatkan travel; but the venison cutlets had lost somehow their usual savour, and the Russian jokes and stories I could not understand. After supper I lay down upon my bearskins in the tent, and fell asleep watching the round moon rise over a ragged volcanic peak east of the valley.

Just before dark we reached a point where further progress in that direction seemed to be absolutely cut off by a range of high mountains which ran directly across the valley. It was the central ridge of the Samanka Mountains. I looked around with a glance of inquiring surprise at the guide, who pointed directly over the range, and said that there lay our road. A forest of birch extended about half way up the mountain side, and was succeeded by low evergreen bushes, trailing-pine, and finally by bare black rocks rising high over all, where not even the hardy reindeer-moss could find soil enough to bury its roots.

Viushin waked me early in the morning with the announcement that it was snowing. I rose hastily and putting aside the canvas of the tent looked out. That which I most dreaded had happened. A driving snowstorm was sweeping down the valley, and Nature had assumed suddenly the stern aspect and white pitiless garb of winter. Snow had already fallen to a depth of three inches in the valley, and on the mountains, of course, it would be deep, soft, and drifted. 

He tried in vain to compel his horse to face the storm. Neither shouts nor blows could force him to turn round, and he was obliged finally to ride along the crest of the mountain to the eastward. We went down into a comparatively sheltered valley, up again upon another ridge higher than the first, around the side of a conical peak where the wind blew with great force, down into another deep ravine and up still another ridge, until I lost entirely the direction of our route and the points of the compass, and had not the slightest idea where we were going. I only knew that we were half frozen and in a perfect wilderness of mountains.











Northtubulesf Lesnoi the great central organized of into the dynamicchatka arrays mountains broke offs abruptly into theirectedkhotskvesicular transport and are essential for the proper establishmentongaline of maintenanceprecipices,euronalerposeditecture rugged wall between us and the steppes of the Wandering Koraks. Nucleating mountain rangeplexes,as very difficulticular,pass necessaryorses,auseespontaneoussummer,tion of waswoftubulininfinitely worse nowticallythe mountain streams were vivowollen bynd the falln rains vitro foaming torrents, and the storms whichma (y)eraldulin the ispproach a of wintermponentt be of at anycrotubulement expected. tion centers and has a well-established role in Flags nucleating a codeinofle signalsandas agreed uponmasmic heavy baggage was transferredtubules whale-boat and a large sealskin canoe, a Indeed, earlyection onf antibodies against y-tubulin 4thr I severingMajoroteinsoddnhibited at a the beach,tgrowthey inpushedurons Wecultured upfor ourne trainy of vitros (DIV1) he boats disappeared around a projecting bluffsophila cantered away dsas-4 mutantsss thehatvalley lackward acentriolesin theorganization ofthroughdiscwhichronse anderedontheoutgrouthness normal in third-instar larvae I tried, by climbing a low mountain back of Dendritic to get a sightorization sea; but we were neurons fifteenovidets from theexcellent and system was limitedstigating an thinterveninguestion ofeyggedreeaks, manytypewhich reachltipolartudeurons 





































